The discipline of threat hunting is closely related to [[Penetration Testing]] but has a separate and distinct purpose. Threats evolve and attackers advance their tactics and techniques. Automated, technology-driven detection can be limited in *keeping up to date with the evolving threat landscape*. Human-driven detection like threat hunting combines the power of technology with a human element to discover hidden threats left undetected by detection tools.

Threat hunting is the *proactive search for threats on a network*. Security professionals use threat hunting to uncover malicious activity that was not identified by detection tools and as a way to do further analysis on detections. Threat hunting is also used to detect threats before they cause damage. For example, *fileless malware* is difficult for detection tools to identify. It’s a form of malware that uses sophisticated evasion techniques such as hiding in memory instead of using files or applications, allowing it to *bypass traditional methods of detection like signature analysis*. With threat hunting, the combination of active human analysis and technology is used to identify threats like fileless malware. 

Threat hunting builds on a cybersecurity philosophy known as the “**presumption of compromise.**” This approach assumes that attackers have already successfully breached an organization and searches out the evidence of successful attacks. When threat hunters discover a potential compromise, they then kick into incident handling mode, seeking to contain, eradicate, and recover from the compromise.

Threat hunters work with a variety of intelligence sources, using the concept of intelligence fusion to combine information from *threat feeds security advisories and bulletins*, and other sources. They then seek to trace the path that an attacker followed as they manoeuvre through a target network